Add extended-property-patterns.md (#4585)
dotnet/csharplang: proposals/extended-property-patterns.md

# Extended property patterns

## Summary
[summary]: #summary

> Allow property subpatterns to reference nested members.

Reviewer: Let's add an example to illustrate up front.

Also, let's add a link to property patterns spec somewhere in this doc: [https://github.com/dotnet/csharplang/blob/main/proposals/csharp-8.0/patterns.md#property-pattern](https://github.com/dotnet/csharplang/blob/main/proposals/csharp-8.0/patterns.md#property-pattern)
Take example on it to write this one.

Author: Didn't find anything in the proposal to include. 

Added an example that I encountered first that was kinda annoying :)

## Motivation
[motivation]: #motivation

When you want to match a child property, nesting another recursive pattern adds too much noise which will hurt readability with no real advantage.

## Detailed design
[design]: #detailed-design

The pattern syntax is modified as follow:

```diff
property_pattern
  : type? property_pattern_clause simple_designation?
  ;

property_pattern_clause
  : '{' (subpattern (',' subpattern)* ','?)? '}'
  ;

subpattern
- : identifier ':' pattern
+ : subpattern_name ':' pattern
  ;

+subpattern_name
+ : identifier 
+ | subpattern_name '.' identifier
+ ;
```

> The receiver for each name lookup is the stripped type of the previous member starting from the *input type* of the *property_pattern*.

Author: >stripped type

This is probably not the correct term to use. How do we refer to such type?

Reviewer: Here's the type of language used elsewhere in the spec: `Determine the type T0. If T is a nullable type, T0 is its underlying type, otherwise T0 is equal to T.`

---
In reply to: [601701046](https://github.com/dotnet/csharplang/pull/4585#discussion_r601701046) [](ancestors = 601701046)

``` 
Instead of:
```cs
if (e is MethodCallExpression { Method: { Name: "MethodName" } })
```

## Motivation
[motivation]: #motivation

When you want to match a child property, nesting another recursive pattern adds too much noise which will hurt readability with no real advantage.

## Detailed design
[design]: #detailed-design

The [*property_pattern*](https://github.com/dotnet/csharplang/blob/main/proposals/csharp-8.0/patterns.md#property-pattern) syntax is modified as follow:

```diff
property_pattern
  : type? property_pattern_clause simple_designation?
  ;

property_pattern_clause
  : '{' (subpattern (',' subpattern)* ','?)? '}'
  ;

subpattern
- : identifier ':' pattern
+ : subpattern_name ':' pattern
  ;

+subpattern_name
+ : identifier 
+ | subpattern_name '.' identifier
+ ;
```

The receiver for each name lookup is the type of the previous member *T0*, starting from the *input type* of the *property_pattern*. if *T* is a nullable type, *T0* is its underlying type, otherwise *T0* is equal to *T*.

For example, a pattern of the form `{ Prop1.Prop2: pattern }` is exactly equivalent to `{ Prop1: { Prop1: pattern } }`.

> Note that this will include the null check for `Nullable<T>` values as it is the case for the expanded form, so we only see the underlying type's members when we dot off of a name in a *property_pattern*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that this will include the null check when `T` is a nullable value type or a reference type. This null check means that the nested properties available will be the properties of `T0`, not of `T`.
```
